1. What is Git?
  Git is a distributed version control system for tracking changes in codes or files..
  It was developed by Linus Torvalds in 2005 and has become one of the most widely used version control systems
  Git allows developers to store and manage different versions of a project's source code and track changes made to the code over time.
  One of the key advantages of Git is its distributed nature, which means that each developer has a local copy of the entire repository and can
  work offline without connected to a central server.

2. Difference between git fetch and git pull?
  git fetch retrieves the latest changes from the remote repository but does not apply them to the local branch. 
  git pull retrieves the latest changes from the remote repository and also apply them to the local branch.


3. Difference between git repository and branch
   A Git repository is a collection of files,codes, along with their version history ,that is managed by the Git version control system.
   A repository can contain one or more number of branches, which are separate lines of development. we can have multiple branches within a single
   repository. 
   Whereas branch is a specific line of development within a Git repository. Each branch can have its own set of commits, which represent changes          
   made to the code over time.  

4.what is gihub?
  GitHub is a Git repository hosting service that provides a web-based graphical interface
  GitHub provides a user-friendly web interface that allows developers to create, manage, and browse repositories,Users can also interact with 
  repositories using the command-line interface,which allows them to perform all Git-related tasks, such as cloning, committing, and merging.

5. What is git push, git pull?
   git push and git pull are both Git commands used for pushing and pulling changes between remote repositories and local repositories.
   git push is used to push local changes to a remote repository.
   git pull is used to pull changes from a remote repository to a local repository.

6. What is git clone git remote? 
   git clone and git remote are both Git commands that are used to work with remote repositories.
   git clone is used to create a local copy of a remote repository.
   git remote is used to manage the connections between a local repository and remote repositories.

7. Difference between git merge and git rebase? 
   git merge and git rebase both are used to integrate changes from one branch into another.
   Specifically,git merge combines the changes from one branch to another branch.when we run git merge it creates a new commit that contains all 
   of the changes from the merged branch.
   whereas,git rebase changes the base of a branch to the tip of another branch.it creates linear history on main branch.

8. How can you fix broken commit? 
   git commit --ammend

9. What happen if .git directory gets deleted? 
  The .git directory in a Git repository contains all the metadata and configuration files that Git uses to manage the repository's version  
  control. and If it gets deleted, the repository's version control history and configuration will be lost, and the repository will no longer be 
  repository.
  Deleting the .git directory will also remove all of the repository's commits, branches, tags, and other version control metadata, so any 
  changes that were made to the repository since the last commit will be lost. 

10. What is use of staging area or indexing in git? 
    the staging area or index in Git is a place where you can prepare your changes for a commit and selectively choose which changes to include, 
    allowing you to organize your changes and commit only what you intend to include.

11. What is version control system? 
    A version control system (VCS) is a software that helps developers manage the changes to their codes and other files.
    it Keep a history of changes:
    using vcs Multiple developers can work on the same codesbase
    Experiment with new features: using branches
    Roll back changes:

12. What are the different git repository hosting functions? 
     Git repository hosting platforms include GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket
     Repository hosting: The ability to host Git repositories and manage access to them


13. What are the advantages of git or features of git?
    ->it is a distributed version control system, which means that each developer has a local copy of the entire project history. This makes it 
      easy to work offline
    -> One of the biggest advantages of Git is its branching capabilities. it is easy to create branches for experimenting new features without
       affecting the stability of master branch.after and we can easily merge them         
    -> Version history: Git provides a detailed history of all changes made to a project, including who made the change, when it was made, and    
       what was changed. This makes it easy to track down bugs and troubleshoot issues.
    
14. Difference between Git and SVN? 
    Git is a distributed version control system, while SVN is a centralized version control system.
    In Git, each developer has a local copy of the entire repository, which allows them to work offline and independently. In SVN, there is a 
    central repository that all developers need to connect through internet.

15. What does command git config do? What is functionality of git-ls-tree. 
    The git-ls-tree command is used to list the contents of a specified tree object in Git. It shows the files, directories, and subdirectories 
    in the tree, along with their metadata.
    The git config command is used to set or get configuration options for Git. These options can be set at the system, user, or repository   
    level.

16. What is git cherry pick? 
    git cherry-pick is a command in Git that allows you to apply the changes made in a specific commit onto another branch. It is a useful 
    feature when you want to bring specific change from other branch into our current branch without merging the entire branch.

17. Difference between git revert and git reset? 
    git revert undo a specific commit by creating a new commit, The original commit remains in the repository's history, but its changes are 
    reversed. This is a safe way to undo changes because it does not modify the repository's history.
    []#git revert <commit-id>
    did reset:-Remove the file from working tree and Index. 
    
20. What does commit message mean? 
    A commit message is a short description that explains the changes made to a Git repository in a particular commit.

21. What do you mean by HEAD in term of git And also tell the number of HEAD that can be present in repository? 
   HEAD is a pointer to the current branch or commit that where we are working on.HEAD can point to either a branch or a specific commit. When 
   HEAD points to a branch, it represents the most recent commit on that branch. When you make a new commit, HEAD is automatically updated to 
   point to the new commit.
   there can only be one HEAD at a time.

22.Difference between HEAD working tree and index in a git
   The working tree is where we make changes to our files.It's basically directory where our Git repository is located.and it contains the files    
   that you we are currently working on When we modify a file in the working tree, Git recognizes that the file has changed, but the changes are 
   not yet staged for commit. using git add . we can staged the working tree
   staging area, is  area where we can stage changes to your files before we commit them to the repository
   The HEAD is a reference to the current commit that you are working on.

23.What does git Reflog do?
   The reflog maintains a history of all the previous positions of the HEAD pointer, including any changes to branches or commits that were not 
   properly saved. It also tracks any changes that were made to the repository's index or working directory, including any changes that were .
   made to files that were subsequently deleted

24.Can you recover deleted branch in git?
   Yes, it is possible to recover deleted branch in Git,
   we need to find the commit id of the last commit on the deleted branch. we can do this by using the git 
   reflog command, which shows a log of all the changes to the repository's HEAD reference, including the deletion of the branch



























  

   